1. Workshop title

  The 2017 Workshop on Forming an Ecosystem Around Software Transformation (FEAST 2017)

2. A draft Call for Papers articulating the scope and topics covered by the workshop
           
Background:

Typical software engineering methodologies are largely focused on
programmer productivity and their methods have been known to introduce
significant execution inefficiency as a side effect.  Recent work
investigating efficient and timely software has attempted to enhance
software execution efficiency while preserving the source code-level
abstractions and object-orientation that enhance a programmerâ€™s
productivity.

Such efforts seek to undo the side effects on security and performance
overhead by reclaiming software execution efficiency and reducing
indirection, as well as performing automatic program de-layering and
program specialization (de-bloating).  Several promising results from
these efforts have demonstrated their viability in improving program
execution efficiency as well as reduction of the cyber security attack
surface.  As a result, the community may benefit by investing in the
development of tool ecosystems to take advantage of this recent
progress, to mature the technologies, and determine how best to
transparently deploy them.

Scope:

Despite some early progress within the computer science research
community, software executable transformation is not a solved science.
Namely, a critical step in the process of reverse engineering and
binary understanding is, in the general case, undecidable.  Various
automated tools (an ecosystem of tools) will need to be investigated
and developed by the community to guarantee the effectiveness and
correctness of transformation efforts and to enhance and ensure the
security of transformed software.  The FEAST workshop will include
discussion topics geared toward:

  - Understanding issues of software executable transformation for
    various programming languages and environment, and the potential
    methods for alleviating those issues

  - Identification of tools to be
    investigated and developed for guaranteeing correctness, enhancing
    security, and enabling non-critical/undesired feature removal

  - Identification of layers and areas of computing systems that are
    suitable for and can benefit from software
    customization/transformation, along with identification of
    associated challenges and constraints, and the particular
    adaptation to the methodology needed to operate within the
    identified areas

  - Automated extraction of models from software
    executables that are amenable to formal methods analysis and
    verification

3. A brief summary and justification for the workshop, including
   anticipated benefits to the ACM CCS community.

FEAST'17 plans to serve as a venue to discuss of the state-of-the-art
topics on software transformation techniques and ecosystems focusing
on security issues, such as software de-bloating issues. We also
invite PIs from ONR for giving feedback (and sharing real experiences)
on this topic. The workshop will be partly supported by the ONR.


4. Proposed format and agenda

The program plans to highlight three to four topic sessions, covering
various topics in software transformation focusing on security
issues. The workshop will accept both papers and presentations,
including regular papers, position papers, work-in-progress reports,
presentation of early research results, position talks, outlining of
challenges/opportunities, and technical surveys of ongoing approaches.
The goal is to spur discussions of the topics covered.

5. Expected number of submissions and acceptance rate

15 out of 20-30

6. Expected number of attendees

50

7. Program chair(s), and, if available, tentative program committee

Chairs:
  Dinghao Wu (PSU)
  Taesoo Kim (Gatech)

PC (tentative):

  Jan Vitek             NEU
  Dongyan Xu            Purdue
  Matthias Payer        Purdue
  Kevin Hamlet          UT Dallas
  Giovanni Vigna        UCSB
  Christopher Kruegel	UCSB
  David Brumley         CMU
  Binoy Ravindran       VT
  Wenke Lee             Gatech
  Taesoo Kim            Gatech
  Dinghao Wu            Penn State
  Mayur Naik            UPenn

8. A one-paragraph biographical sketch for each organizer,
  describing relevant qualifications, including research and
  conference/workshop organizing experience

Dinghao Wu is currently an Assistant Professor in the College of
Information Sciences and Technology at the Pennsylvania State
University. He currently holds the PNC Technologies Career Development
Professorship. His research is in software systems, including software
security, software protection, software analysis and verification,
software engineering, and programming languages. His research has been
funded by National Science Foundation (NSF), Office of Naval Research
(ONR), and Department of Energy (DOE). He received his Ph.D. degree in
Computer Science from Princeton University in 2005. He was a research
engineer at Microsoft in the Center for Software Excellence and later
the Windows Azure Division from 2005--2009. He received the NSF CAREER
Award, George J. McMurtry Junior Faculty Excellence in Teaching and
Learning Award, and College Junior Faculty Excellence in Research
Award. He has served as PC members on a number of conferences such as
CCS 2017 and ICSE 2016 SEIP track.

Taesoo Kim is an Assistant Professor in the School Computer Science at
Georgia Tech. He is interested in building a system that has underline
principles for why it should be secure. Those principles include the
design of a system, analysis of its implementation, and clear
separation of trusted components. He holds a B.S. from KAIST (2009), a
S.M. (2011) and a Ph.D. (2014) from MIT. He serves as a CCS workshop
co-chair in 2017, and serves as AsiaCCS co-PC chair in 2018.

1. Number of submissions:

   17

2. Number of accepted "presentation":

   NOTE. Last year, FEAST only accepted presentation

   14

3. Number of registered attendees:

   40

4. Preferred date: 10/30/2017 (Monday) or 11/03/2017 (Friday):

   11/03/2017 (Fri)